[pained groan]
What's the matter?
You were so
determined at the start,
but now you might as
well be a punching bag.
Hym: Come on.
Fight back a little.
Give me another taste
of your Bloody Scryde.
Or how about your
Air Strike attack?
That might make
this interesting.
Hyunckel: I'd just
be wasting my time.
Hym...
Can't you see that you've
become far more than a pawn?
At this point, even if
I cast my Bloody Scryde,
you'd just deflect it.
And in your new form,
my Air Strike won't be of
any use against you, either.
Hyunckel: As a matter of fact,
I'd wager that
most of my attacks
won't have much
effect on you now.
In the game of chess,
a pawn that's
journeyed all the way
to the farthest end of the
enemy's territory can gain
the abilities of a queen or
the other high-level pieces,
and I believe that's
what happened to you.
Hym [thought]: The
promotion... of a pawn?
After all, that silver
hair you've grown...
could be proof that
you've transformed...
Proof that you've
completed your evolution
into a truly
top-class warrior.
And what's your point?
Are you telling me
that if you can't win,
you're just going to
give up fighting altogether?!
[pained groans]
Hym [thought]: No, wait...
That's not the look of someone
who's accepted their defeat.
He still has
something up his sleeve.
The only question is - what?
Hyunckel [thought]:
That's better.
I'm beginning to
see some of the weakness
in Hym's movements.
Right after he throws
that destructive left jab,
his entire body freezes.
It may only be for an instant,
but that's all
the opening I need.
I'll have to time
it just right and
attack with every
ounce of my strength...
And that calls for the
heaviest hitter in my arsenal.
Here he comes.
Bring it on!
[roaring]
Your little toys are
all but useless against me.
This is the end
for you, Hyunckel!
Th-this is...
Hyunckel [thought]:
My Grand Cross.
Someone as fast as
you are could dodge it,
but if I hold you
down and fire inward,
there's no escape.
Now, time for me to drag
you back to the Underworld!
[furious roar]
Hym [thought]:
So that was his plan.
He put all his chips on
a self-sacrificing move,
hoping to take me with him.
That might've worked if you had
a chance at restraining me.
But this settles it...
Victory is all mine, Hyunckel!
Hyunckel [thought]: If
I were in peak condition,
this would've gone
the other way.
But I've already used
Grand Cross twice,
and with my energy
running low,
I couldn't focus my Aura before
he was able to counter it.
I've used every weapon and all
the energy I have, Master Avan.
There's nothing
left for me to do.
I'm out of options.
I mean, don't get me wrong.
It's definitely
better than nothing...
It's just kind of weird
having you heal me, is all.
[chuckling]
Tell me about it.
It's new for me, too.
Like, really - I just
figured out that spell.
Hey, wait a minute.
If you're able to cast
Healing-type spells,
then why were you so desperate
to have Maam do it? Huh?
Because...
I-I really was out of
Magic Power back then, okay?!
Shut up! Ugh - you little...
Maam [thought]:
Popp is amazing...
It feels like
there's less and less
need for me the
better they get.
Popp: Well, okay then.
We're fully healed up and ready
for another bout, aren't we?
Come and give us
your worst!
You hear that, Dark Army?!
Popp: I gotta say, this
whole eerie silence thing?
It's pretty unsettling.
Shouldn't Master Avan
and Leona be back?
Yeah.
They've been gone
for a while now.
Even stranger, the fact
that we've been camped out
in the middle of the
enemy stronghold and
nobody's even tried to ambush us
is actually sort of a bad sign.
In fact, it usually
means that...
Mystvearn: Exactly.
It means you're not alone...
and that whoever is guarding
this area is so powerful,
they have no need for the
assistance of underlings.
It means even if
you're fully healed,
you're still too weak
to stand a chance.
Look who it is.
Mystvearn: Where you stand is
known as the White Garden;
the heart of Vearn Palace.
It leads directly to
the Tower of Supremacy,
and past that is King
Vearn's inner sanctum.
It's the most beautiful place
in all the halls of
our grand fortress.
Yeah? Big deal.
What is this, a
sightseeing tour?
Mystvearn: I simply thought
that you hopeless little brats
would like to know
the name of the place
where you're
going to die.
Oh, yeah?
Hyunckel [thought]: No, not yet.
I can't afford to give up...
Not with the others
counting on me.
Leona said that fortitude
is the power of my soul.
So long as I have even
I shred of fighting spirit,
I must rise again and try
to strike down my adversary.
Hym [thought]: Lord Hadlar.
I hope whatever part
of you remains can see.
A Disciple of Avan has
been defeated at last.
Hym [thought]:
Incredible. Is he immortal?
No, just stubborn.
So he wants to go down
fighting, does he?
Hym: Very well.
Take your spear.
Appreciate the gesture, but I
don't think I'll be using it.
Matter of fact, I shouldn't
need my armor, either.
Hym: What...
What are you doing?!
Pitting Aura against Aura.
And now that I've
cast aside everything
in order to fight
you on even ground,
I hope you're ready
to finish this.
We'll settle it once and for
all... using only our fists!
Hym: Are you out of your mind?
I was formed from
Orichalcum, you fool.
A human like you will
never stand a chance
using bare fists alone.
Hyunckel: Doesn't
matter if it works or not.
I still have to try.
This fist, it's the only weapon
I have left - my last chance.
The only option I have
left is to take a gamble
and hope that this works...
If I fail -
oblivion awaits me!
And, that's why...
That's why you discarded
your armor and spear?
For this to work, I needed to
force myself into a corner.
Hym [thought]: I knew it!
It's how I awoke to
the Aura of Light
the first time,
and back then...
I could tear steel
with these hands!
The flame of my life
force may be growing dim...
but if I turn all
of it into Aura
and focus that
power into my fist,
it should have
enough strength
to put a few dents
in Orichalcum.
Prepare yourself, Hym.
You're about to face
the last of my power.
How remarkable.
This is more than just
a desperate measure.
I can see that much...
And yet you're still
wasting your time, Hyunckel.
You may put up an
impressive fight,
but your arrogance
betrays you.
You've forgotten one
very important thing.
[roaring]
Two can play at your game.
And since my Heat Knuckle
has been infused with
the very same power
you seek to wield...
Now it's an Aura Knuckle.
It's no ordinary weapon.
We both know the score.
How formidable
Orichalcum can be
when it's channeling
the strength of an Aura.
It doesn't really matter
what you cast aside.
In the end, you're
not a match for me.
My Aura Knuckle...
has as much power as
any Legendary Sword.
How do you think
you would fare...
against Dai or Lord
Hadlar empty-handed
while they wielded
their weapons?
Obviously, not well.
I wouldn't even
call it a fight.
A single hit with this will
obliterate any opponent -
even if they were
wearing armor.
And if it's up to me...
I'd rather not see you go
out in such a pitiful way.
Then what?
Defeating you was my first
purpose - the only purpose
of mine in the life that
my master has granted me.
I could sense it from
the very beginning,
back when we first
met in combat.
You parade around,
acting as if you're the toughest
person that ever existed.
Turning that cool expression
of yours into one of pure fear
has been a dream
of mine ever since.
I believed that
doing so would
appease the spirit that
Lord Hadlar left me with.
But if you're going to die,
you deserve better.
I won't allow you to lose
in such a miserable manner.
I want you to die
as you lived...
With that insufferable,
smug look on your face.
You know, the first
time we fought,
you also told me something that
seems rather fitting for this:
You said that it was better
to die a beautiful death
than to live on in disgrace.
I stopped fearing
my death long ago.
And it may be true that...
there was once a time where
I would have preferred
a glorious end over
leading a life of disgrace.
But... that time has passed.
My friends have
shown me the truth -
and glory has
nothing to do with it.
A true warrior
can never give up,
not until they've
fulfilled their purpose
and carried out their duty...
That's serving others.
Even when in the face
of immeasurable danger
and it seems
completely hopeless.
I don't care how disgraceful
or pathetic the
end of that road is.
I'll fight for it.
If there's even a
sliver of a chance that
I can stop you,
I have to try.
Hyunckel: So come on.
Who will it be, Hym?
Can this fist carrying all
the fortitude of my soul
overcome you and your
implacable iron gauntlets?
I think it's
time we found out.
You really are
an incredible man.
I finally understand now.
Yes, I see it.
That's the quality inside you
I always dreamt
of defeating.
Well, you're some kind
of incredible yourself.
You're the second
person I've encountered
who was able to push
me past my limits.
Hyunckel [thought]: I hope
you can see this, Avan.
It's going to be
my last great gambit.
Here we go!
Hyunckel [thought]: Be ready.
If he's backing up,
it means he's about to
unleash his greatest attack.
[roaring]
You want to risk
everything, do you?
Hold still. I'll destroy
it all away. Take this!
Aura Knuckle!
I warned you.
Wh- How?!
Y-You... You should
be vaporized!
I would have been, Hym.
Except your fist never got
close enough to touch me.
I'm just a lot faster,
and my strike caught you
off-guard just now...
Before you could land
a hit of your own.
Hyunckel: But we have
our answer: My fist wins.
Hyunckel [thought]:
He's finished.
Hym was a mighty foe indeed.
It took nearly everything
I had to put him down...
I almost didn't make it.
Dammit.
How could... my Orichalcum
body failed me...
It's because your
attack was that powerful.
You should be proud of
yourself for such a feat.
M-My attack?
My strength and Aura combined
weren't enough to
shatter Orichalcum.
I had to find a way to make
your own ability do it for me.
To turn your attack
against you,
I needed a counter
of some kind.
The Avan Style has
a similar technique,
so I decided to try
applying it to my fist.
Looks like it worked
like a charm.
That was the same
skill you used
when you fought
against Baran...
Hyunckel: But the Hollow
Stance requires a warrior to
empty themselves and take on the
full force of an enemy's blow.
If I had tried to do that here,
even with my Aura suppressed,
I doubt I could have
survived a single strike.
So I had no choice but
to try hitting you with
my Aura-infused fist right
before you made impact,
to dampen your charge enough
that I could handle it.
It required perfect timing -
a true moment
of life or death -
with no guarantee
that it would work.
But somehow, I managed
to pull it off.
I believe... it's all
because you willingly
took the bait when I offered
you a head-on challenge.
If you had taken your time,
I imagine that you
could've easily used
your martial arts to
whittle me down...
With me exhausted, you
could've claimed victory.
Hym: I'd never do that.
It wouldn't be fair.
Even if I knew that it
would bring me victory,
I'd never do such
a thing. Not ever.
It would be pointless.
There's no honor in
beating you that way.
I would've given my life to
win, but I'd much rather die
than lower myself to
such a cowardly tactic.
You're right...
It hurts...
More than I've ever hurt
before. It's incredible.
Wounds like this
used to cause
only the slightest
hint of pain...
I suppose... this must be the
agony of the living. Isn't it?
You've defeated me,
once again.
And now it's time to finish me
off, as a victor should...
Don't make me wait, Hyunckel!
What... What are you doing?
I've fought you enough to know
you deserve a better
death than this.
If you can reach my
friends inside the palace,
they could use their
magic to heal you.
You heard me.
Now, on your feet.
Join you? Are you
kidding? Not a chance!
I gave this my all and
I lost, fair and square!
I don't have any regrets, and
I don't need your pity, either.
It isn't pity. It's an
order. Make no mistake.
You're giving me orders?
Why shouldn't I?
If a warrior has the right to
take the life of an
opponent they've defeated,
I'll take your
death instead...
and that would
leave you in my debt.
Hyunckel: I can
tell that in your heart,
you're no longer evil.
You might have wanted
to take me down,
but your reasons for
doing so were pure.
Either way, now that
our duel is finished,
I have no desire to
do you any more harm.
But I... I'm not worthy.
It doesn't matter. But
I'll tell you what does.
Your life is no longer
your own to give.
You carry on the will
of Lord Hadlar and
the fallen members
of the Royal Guard.
This new life; it's much
more than some "promotion".
It's not about how far you've
travelled across the board.
You returned... because
you have an obligation
to keep your friends'
memory alive.
That's the truth, isn't it?
Hyunckel: I'm not saying
you have to join us.
And for whatever it's worth,
if I survive this
upcoming battle with Vearn,
I'll gladly fight
you... again.
It's your choice...
But for now you live.
That didn't really come out
the way I wanted it to.
I'm not sure why, but when
my friends said it to me,
it sounded a lot
kinder than that.
Curse you and your arrogance.
Am I meant to be
moved by this?
Because I'll tell you now.
If I could move,
I wouldn't join you.
I'd punch you right in
that sentimental face.
If you live, I
promise you can try.
Not good.
Wait. What's this rumbling?
Mystvearn: It appears
the Janitor of Vearn Palace
has finally lost patience.
Now there's no
avoiding your demise.
Who's the "Janitor"?
What is this?
Why are there seven
pawns just like me?
And there's Sigma and Block
and Fenbren as well...
but how?!
Maximum: [cackling]
What are you talking about,
you worthless piece of scrap?
Have you really forgotten?
You and your
pathetic Royal Guard
weren't the only pieces
on the chessboard.
Our game involves
a king and queen,
two bishops, two rooks, two
knights, and eight pawns...
making a grand total
of sixteen pieces.
The Dark King only gave
Hadlar five of those.
Didn't you ever wonder
where the rest were?
Maximum: Regardless,
of those sixteen pieces,
there's only one which
possesses a will of its own...
And behold - it is I...
The only one who has
the absolute confidence
of His Dark Majesty.
The palace's greatest and
most terrifying guardian...
Maximum - king of
the chessboard!
Hym: This isn't good.
Hyunckel's still in tatters
and I can barely move at all.
We'll never stand
a chance against
this many Orichalcum warriors.
It'll be a bloodbath.
Run for it, Hyunckel!
Get as far from here
as you can! Leave me.
It's all right.
I'll deal with him.
You just stay where you are.
I hope you can forgive me,
but I don't think
I'll be able to
hold up my end of our bargain.
Either way, you still
have to survive.
Got it?
You have to get to my friends
and let them heal you.
I'll buy you the time.
Don't waste it.
No, wait... You don't
mean... Hyunckel!
Hyunckel [thought]:
I think I might have to.
I've fought all this way...
charging into
the jaws of peril,
believing that only pain
could make me forget
the dark deeds of my past...
So certain that if I spilled
enough blood and sweat,
it would wash away my sins...
Denying myself any feeling
or simple pleasure.
And now...
Hyunckel [thought]: Today,
all of that comes to an end.
There's no doubt in
my mind. I can feel it.
This will be my final battle.
Narrator: Exhausted
by their duel,
Hyunckel and Hym put their
newfound alliance to the test,
facing Maximum and his
Orichalcum soldiers.
But Vearn Palace's most
formidable guardian
lives up to his namesake,
and while the others
square off with Mystvearn,
Maximum and his forces
strike back without mercy.
With peril closing
in from every angle,
can Hyunckel and Hym overcome
the odds and claim the victory?
Find out when the adventure
continues - next time on
Dragon Quest:
The Adventure of Dai,
"Checkmate."